All right, so the first thing we're going to need to do is to install a Java.
So to do that will open up a browser and we'll just search for install.
JDK JDK stands for the Java development kit and that is the name of the Java development system that
we would need.
So I'm just going to go to my browser here and I'm going to type in install JDK.
And as of the time of this recording, the most recent version is 17.
All right.
So let's see installation of the JDK on Microsoft Windows.
Now I happen to be right now installing this on Mac.
If you're on Windows, go check out my video for how to install on Windows, although most of the steps
are fairly identical.
All right, so I'm going to select Java downloads from Oracle here.
All right.
And Java 17 available now, and so I'm going to choose my operating system, which is Mac OS right there
and then.
I need to choose the version for my processor now I happen to be on an M1 Mac, which uses an ARM 64
processor for Mac OS.
There are both ARM versions or M1 versions of Macs, as well as Intel processors.
So if you happen to be on an Intel processor, that's the one you'll want to take.
And I'm going to go for the DMG installer because that's a nice, easy to use install program rather
than having to decompress some image or something.
So I'm going to go for the ARM 64 DMG installer and I'm going to click on that.
So if you're on Intel, you'll want to use the x64 DMG installer.
All right.
And that's finished downloading, and then I will just click here and double click it, and that gives
me this little thing, and now I can just double click this package to in to run the installer.
All right, and now we have this nice, easy to use install program.
And so I will just click continue and install, and I need to enter my password for logging into my
computer.
All right.
And that is done, and now I can move it to trash to just get rid of that package install program now
to verify that I've actually successfully installed the JDK.
One thing that I usually like to do, first and foremost, is just open up a command line prompt and
Typekit Java command to see what version of Java the computer system thinks I have installed.
So on a Mac, you can invoke the spotlight command.
That's usually in the way that I like to do it, and I usually do it by keyboard shortcuts with command
space and that opens up spotlight.
Or you can go to the little hourglass in the upper right hand corner of your menu bar.
Sorry, my recording software isn't set to actually show that sort of that side of my screen, but hopefully
you know what I'm talking about.
So I'm just going to type in terminal to launch the terminal program.
And so here's the terminal program.
And so from here, let me let me zoom in on that.
All right.
And so from here, if Java was installed successfully, I should be able to execute the Java command
right here.
So all lowercase Java Java.
Dash Dash version.
All lowercase, the dashes are minus signs, OK?
And then hit return.
And yeah, looks good.
I have.
It's reporting back that it have Java seventeen point zero point one, so it looks like that got installed
successfully, and this completes the installation process for installing Java version 17 on an M1 ARM64
Mac.